# UART Shell with SPI Communication
This project adds onto my previous project, the UART Shell with Timer Interrupts, by exploring the SPI communication protocol. A new device was added, the MFRC522, which can detect a card swipe near its antenna. Functionality was added to detect this card swipe and light up a green or red LED based off card authentication. Additionally, some small bug fixes were made from previous implementations. Bare-metal programming was utilized to emphasize protocol and device configuration. This project uses the UART communication protocol to send commands from my laptop to my STM32 NUCLEO-F411RE, and overall it builds on the embedded systems foundations established in previous implementations. Importantly, this project now utilizes UART, I2C, and SPI protocols.

# What was done
1. SPI Initialization\   
   To start, C and Header files were created to initialize the SPI protocol on my stm32. This involved reading the F411RE datasheet to find appropriate pins for SPI, configuring clocks and GPIO pins, and then configuring the actual SPI protocol. The SCK, MISO, and MOSI pins had to be specifically selected from the alternate function table in the F411RE datasheet. Additionally, transfer and receive functions were created to send and receive bytes via SPI.
2. Initialize and Verify the MFRC522\
   The MFRC522 was initialized and verified by creating read and write functions for the device. These utilized the transfer and receive functions created in the previous step, and followed a protocol unique to the MFRC522 and its datasheet. To verify the device, the return values of its VersionReg and TxControlReg registers were printed to the console and compared to expected values from the MFRC datasheet.
3. Card UID Printing\
   A function was added to the main() loop that prints the UID of a card when it is scanned by the MFRC522. This was done by creating detect_card() and read_uid() functions that utilized directions in the MFRC datasheet and the ISO 14443 / RFID protocol. This was used to find the UID of the blue card that came with MFRC, which would later be used as a card with proper authentication. This part of the project implemented debouncing for the scanning, as it initially would scan a card dozens of times per second.
4. Card Authentication\
   After finding the blue card's UID, a function was created to compare a scanned card's UID to the correct UID. When the blue card is scanned, a green LED lights up on the breadboard, and a success output is sent to the UART Shell. When any other card is scanned, a red LED lights up on the breadboard, and a denial output is sent to the shell. A command was also added to turn off these LEDs.

# What was learned overall
This project reinforced and introduced topics related to embedded systems including clock and GPIO enables, alternate function modes and mapping, full-duplex vs. half-duplex communication, push-pull output type, SPI protocol, ISO 14443, debouncing, and bare-metal programming. The next project will look into utilizing FreeRTOS with this implementation. Additionally, this project still has great potential for future additions such as communication with an LCD, motion sensors, etc. More information about the project can be found in the "SPI MFRC522.pdf" file.
